So we had to look at cookies,
what is a session?
Well we have the same set up as before, user using the frontend our view is interacting with our server
where we have our node application code. We send a request and we do login
and again let's assume we do send the valid credentials there,
we're not validating them in this module because I want to focus on sessions and cookies.
So now instead of storing the information that the user is authenticated in the frontend which was
a bad place as we learned, we'll store it in the backend with a so-called session and a session is a new
construct which we haven't used before.
With that I'm not meaning that we store it in the request because we already saw that this will not
work
and I also don't mean that we store it in some variable in our express app because that would be shared
across all users and all requests,
we only want to share the information across all requests of the same user and that's really important,
the same user so that other users can't see your data, can't
assume your role, can't tell the server that they are authenticated, only you are authenticated.
Now for that, we need to store it on the server,
we'll start by storing it in memory which is then pretty similar to storing in that variable
but eventually we'll move to a different session storage, the database and we need one important piece
of information. A client needs to tell the server to which session he belongs because the session will
in the end just be an entry stored in memory or stored in a database.
Now we're not matching this by IP address or anything like that because that is a bit hard to maintain
and can be faked and all that fun stuff,
so we're not doing that
instead we'll use a cookie where we will store the ID of the session.
Now obviously you can still change that and assume a different ID if you want to but that will not work
like this because actually the value we store will not be the ID but the hashed ID, hashed with a certain
algorithm where only the server can confirm that it has not been fiddled with so that you didn't play
around with it and tried to create a different one.
So this will be a secure way because you basically store the ID in an encrypted way where only the
server is able to confirm that the stored cookie value relates to a certain ID in the database
and therefore we got a safe value stored in the cookie which you can't,
you can change it but you will not assume a different session,
a session can be matched and that session can then contain the confidential data which you can't change
from inside the browser,
that is the idea here.
So sessions are stored on the server side, cookies client side, sessions server side.
Now let me show you how to implement a session.